.\" Manpage for zpwr.
.\" Contact: https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies/zpwr
.TH ZPWR 1 "2026-05-14" "zpwr v48.9.3" "ZPWR Manual"
.SH NAME
zpwr \- neon-lit UNIX terminal operating system for the digital underground
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zpwr
.RI [ VERB " [" ARGS ...]]
.br
.B zpwr
.BR \-h " | " \-? " | " \-\-help
.br
.B zpwr
.BR \-V " | " \-\-version
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B zpwr
is the master dispatcher for the ZPWR terminal environment \-\- a high-voltage
zsh\-on\-zinit cockpit weaponized with custom zsh, bash, vimL, and
.I stryke
code. The
.B zpwr
function looks up
.I VERB
in the
.B ZPWR_VERBS
associative array and dispatches to the corresponding zsh function, alias, or
binary, forwarding the remaining
.I ARGS .
.PP
With no arguments,
.B zpwr
.BR cd s
to
.BR $ZPWR ,
the install root (typically
.IR ~/.zpwr ).
.PP
ZPWR ships 456+ verbs, 2k+ aliases, 17k+ completions, 506+ subcommands, and a
tmux cockpit. Tab completion on
.B zpwr
.RI < TAB >
lists every verb with its short description, color-coded.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-? ", " \-\-help
List all verbs with their colorized descriptions in a pager
.RB ( zpwrListVerbsColor ).
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Show the ZPWR banner and version in a pager
.RB ( zpwrAbout ).
.TP
.B \-\-
End-of-options marker; the next argument is treated as the verb.
.SH VERBS
.B zpwr
exposes hundreds of verbs. The list below is a curated cross-section;
.B zpwr help
shows the full set.
.SS Diagnostics and profiling
.TP
.B doctor
Run the environment health-check diagnostic
.RB ( zpwrDoctor ).
Aliases:
.BR doc ", " checkup .
.TP
.B bench
Benchmark shell startup with percentile breakdown and baseline diff.
Alias:
.BR benchmark .
.TP
.B startup
One-shot
.I zprof
startup profile with colorized breakdown.
.TP
.B flame
Render a startup flame chart from
.I zprof
data.
.TP
.B top
Live shell resource dashboard.
Alias:
.BR dashboard .
.TP
.B trace
Run a command with full instrumentation (
.IR xtrace ,
.IR ftrace ,
timing).
.TP
.B lint
Run
.B shellcheck
and
.B zsh \-n
across all zpwr scripts and autoloads.
Alias:
.BR check .
.TP
.B pathaudit
Audit
.BR PATH ,
.BR FPATH ,
.B MANPATH
for duplicates and missing directories.
Alias:
.BR audit .
.TP
.B stale
Find stale
.B .zwc
files, orphan caches, and broken symlinks.
Alias:
.BR cruft .
.TP
.B ports
List listening ports with the owning process.
.SS History and analytics
.TP
.B aliasrank
Mine shell history for alias usage statistics.
Alias:
.BR aliasusage .
.TP
.B funcrank
Rank zsh functions and
.B zpwr
verbs by history usage.
.TP
.B timeline
Visual timeline of shell history grouped by hour and directory.
Alias:
.BR activity .
.TP
.B replay
Replay the last
.I N
commands from history.
.TP
.B gitwho
Aggregate
.B git
contributor stats across all cached repos.
.SS Environment state
.TP
.B snapshot
Capture a full terminal environment snapshot.
.TP
.B restore
Restore the terminal environment from a snapshot.
.TP
.B deps
Function dependency graph and call-chain analysis.
Alias:
.BR callers .
.TP
.B resolve
Trace command resolution chain: alias \(-> function \(-> builtin \(-> binary.
.TP
.B taillog
Colorized
.B tail
of
.BR $ZPWR_LOGFILE .
.SS Cache management
.TP
.B compile
Recompile every
.B .zwc
cache entry
.RB ( zpwrRecompile ).
.TP
.B decompile
Delete every
.B .zwc
cache entry
.RB ( zpwrUncompile ).
.TP
.B compilefpath
Recompile only
.B fpath
caches.
.TP
.B cleanall
Clear
.BR $ZPWR_DIRS_CLEAN ,
temp, and cache.
.TP
.B cleantemp
Clear only zpwr temp files.
.TP
.B cleancache
Clear all zpwr cache files.
.TP
.B cleanlog
Truncate
.BR $ZPWR_LOGFILE .
.TP
.B deduppaths
Deduplicate
.BR PATH ", " fpath ", " manpath .
.SS Navigation and search
.TP
.B cd
.B cd
to a directory argument with zpwr semantics.
Aliases:
.BR f ", " forward ", " fwd .
.TP
.B cdup
.B cd
up the tree to a directory argument.
Aliases:
.BR r ", " reverse ", " rvs .
.TP
.B cat
.B cat
arguments through zpwr pretty-printing.
Alias:
.BR c .
.TP
.B search
Recursive
.B grep
search with context.
.TP
.B dirsearch
.B cd
to a fuzzy-found subdirectory.
.TP
.B filesearch
.B c
a fuzzy-found file in a subdirectory.
.SS Updates and lifecycle
.TP
.B updatepull
Pull the latest config from the ZPWR repo.
.TP
.B reset
Reset the ZPWR repo to the latest
.BR main .
.TP
.B backup
Backup files via the zpwr backup pipeline.
.TP
.B backuphistory
Backup
.BR $HISTFILE .
.SS Banner and tour
.TP
.B about
Show the ZPWR banner.
Alias:
.BR banner .
.TP
.B bannercounts
Show the banner together with environment counts.
.TP
.B docs
Interactive guided tour of zpwr.
Alias:
.BR wizard .
.TP
.B help
Color-listed verb catalog (same as
.BR \-h ).
.SS Eye-candy
.TP
.B fortune
Cyberpunk fortune cookies in random
.B figlet
fonts.
.TP
.B matrix
Fullscreen Matrix digital-rain screensaver.
.TP
.B animate
Run a terminal animation.
.SS Tmux
.TP
.B attach
.B tmux attach-session .
.TP
.B detach
Detach from all tmux sessions.
.PP
The full verb catalog \(em including networking
.RB ( digs ", " torip ),
git
.RB ( clone ", " colorsdiff ),
docker
.RB ( dockerwipe ", " dfimage ),
encyclopedia regeneration
.RB ( regenpdf ),
and hundreds more \(em is enumerated by
.BR "zpwr help" .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The verb dispatched and returned success.
.TP
.B 1
Unknown subcommand. Printed as
.RB \(lq "Unknown subcommand: \(aqVERB\(aq" \(rq
to stderr.
.TP
.I other
Forwarded from the dispatched verb's command.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ZPWR
Absolute path to the ZPWR install root (typically
.IR ~/.zpwr ).
.TP
.B ZPWR_VERBS_FILE
Path to the verb-dispatch file
.RI ( $ZPWR/env/zpwr.zsh ).
.TP
.B ZPWR_VERBS
Associative array
.RI ( "typeset \-Ag" )
holding
.BR verb \(rA cmd=description
entries.
.TP
.B ZPWR_LOGFILE
Destination for
.BR zpwr " " "logdebug | logerror | loginfo | logwarn"
and
.BR taillog .
.TP
.B ZPWR_REPO_NAME
Repository display name (used in banners).
.TP
.B ZPWR_GITHUB_ACCOUNT
GitHub account targeted by clone/update verbs.
.TP
.B ZPWR_DIRS_CLEAN
Directory list cleared by
.BR cleandirs ", " cleanall .
.TP
.B ZPWR_ALACRITTY_CFG
Alacritty config path edited by
.BR "zpwr alacritty" .
.TP
.B EDITOR
Used by
.B "zpwr edit"
to launch the editor.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.zpwr/
ZPWR install root
.RB ( $ZPWR ).
.TP
.I ~/.zpwr/env/zpwr.zsh
Verb-dispatch table and the
.B zpwr
function source.
.TP
.I ~/.zpwr/autoload/common/zpwr
The
.B zpwr
shell-function entry point.
.TP
.I ~/.zpwr/autoload/
Autoload tree containing every
.B zpwr*
shell function backing the verbs.
.TP
.I ~/.zpwr/install/
Installer scripts and seed dotfiles.
.TP
.I ~/.zpwr/docs/
Encyclopedia LaTeX source, HTML site, and wizard pages.
.TP
.I ~/.zpwr/local/.tokens.sh
Local shell aliases and environment variables (not tracked).
.TP
.I ~/.zpwr/scripts/
Standalone shell scripts dispatched by verbs.
.SH EXAMPLES
List every verb in color:
.PP
.RS
.EX
zpwr help
.EE
.RE
.PP
Run the environment health check:
.PP
.RS
.EX
zpwr doctor
.EE
.RE
.PP
Benchmark shell startup with baseline diff:
.PP
.RS
.EX
zpwr bench
.EE
.RE
.PP
Render a startup flame chart from
.IR zprof :
.PP
.RS
.EX
zpwr flame
.EE
.RE
.PP
Audit
.BR PATH ", " FPATH ", " MANPATH :
.PP
.RS
.EX
zpwr pathaudit
.EE
.RE
.PP
Snapshot the current terminal environment, then restore it later:
.PP
.RS
.EX
zpwr snapshot
zpwr restore
.EE
.RE
.PP
Trace how
.B ls
resolves on this system:
.PP
.RS
.EX
zpwr resolve ls
.EE
.RE
.PP
Open the interactive encyclopedia / guided tour:
.PP
.RS
.EX
zpwr docs
.EE
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Jacob Menke
.RB < https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies >.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at
.RB < https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies/zpwr/issues >.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR zpwrall (1),
.BR zsh (1),
.BR zshall (1),
.BR tmux (1),
.BR fzf (1),
.BR shellcheck (1),
.BR zprof (1).
.PP
.B zpwrall (1)
is the comprehensive meta-page: every verb, every
.B ZPWR_*
variable, file layout, tmux, keybindings, caches, and logging.
.PP
Project home:
.RB < https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies/zpwr >.
.br
Read the Docs:
.RB < https://menketechnologies.github.io/zpwr/ >.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co MenkeTechnologies. Licensed under the project
.B license.md
in the ZPWR repository.
