selectp -t 0 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 0 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -v -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 0 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -v -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 2 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -v -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 4 # select the first (0) pane 

splitw -v -p 50  # split it into two halves
selectp -t 4 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -v -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 6 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -v -p 50  # split it into two halves


selectp -t 7 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 6 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 5 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 4 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 3 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 2 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 1 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 0 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halvessplitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 0 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halvessplitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 3 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halvessplitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 6 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halvessplitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 9 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halvessplitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 2 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halvessplitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 6 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halvessplitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 10 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halvessplitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 14 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halvessplitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 16 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halvessplitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 19 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halvessplitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 22 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halvessplitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 25 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halvessplitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 18 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halvessplitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 22 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halvessplitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 26 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halvessplitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves

selectp -t 30 # select the first (0) pane 
splitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halvessplitw -h -p 50  # split it into two halves
